docs: Switch to flat config by default (#17840)
eslint/eslint: docs/src/use/configure/configuration-files.md

---
title: Configuration Files (New)
eleventyNavigation:
    key: configuration files
    parent: configure
    title: Configuration Files (New)

>     order: 1

Reviewer: Is `(New)` intentional? Since this now becomes the default config format, perhaps there's no longer a need to mark it as "new".

* `languageOptions` - An object containing settings related to how JavaScript is configured for linting.
    * `ecmaVersion` - The version of ECMAScript to support. May be any year (i.e., `2022`) or version (i.e., `5`). Set to `"latest"` for the most recent supported version. (default: `"latest"`)
    * `sourceType` - The type of JavaScript source code. Possible values are `"script"` for traditional script files, `"module"` for ECMAScript modules (ESM), and `"commonjs"` for CommonJS files. (default: `"module"` for `.js` and `.mjs` files; `"commonjs"` for `.cjs` files)
    * `globals` - An object specifying additional objects that should be added to the global scope during linting.
    * `parser` - An object containing a `parse()` method or a `parseForESLint()` method. (default: [`espree`](https://github.com/eslint/espree))
    * `parserOptions` - An object specifying additional options that are passed directly to the `parse()` or `parseForESLint()` method on the parser. The available options are parser-dependent.
* `linterOptions` - An object containing settings related to the linting process.
    * `noInlineConfig` - A Boolean value indicating if inline configuration is allowed.

>     * `reportUnusedDisableDirectives` - A Boolean value indicating if unused disable and enable directives should be tracked and reported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `reportUnusedDisableDirectives` - A severity string indicating if and how unused disable and enable directives should be tracked and reported. For legacy compatibility, `true` is equivalent to `"warn"` and `false` is equivalent to `"off"`. (default: `"off"`).
```

This was updated in the meantime.

* `processor` - Either an object containing `preprocess()` and `postprocess()` methods or a string indicating the name of a processor inside of a plugin (i.e., `"pluginName/processorName"`).
* `plugins` - An object containing a name-value mapping of plugin names to plugin objects. When `files` is specified, these plugins are only available to the matching files.
* `rules` - An object containing the configured rules. When `files` or `ignores` are specified, these rule configurations are only available to the matching files.
* `settings` - An object containing name-value pairs of information that should be available to all rules.

### Specifying `files` and `ignores`

::: tip

> Patterns specified in `files` and `ignores` use [`minimatch`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/minimatch) syntax and are evaluated relative to the location of the `eslint.config.js` file. If using an alternate config file via the `--config` command line option, then all path are evaluated relative to the current working directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Patterns specified in `files` and `ignores` use [`minimatch`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/minimatch) syntax and are evaluated relative to the location of the `eslint.config.js` file. If using an alternate config file via the `--config` command line option, then all patterns are evaluated relative to the current working directory.
```

                describe: "readonly"
            }
        }
    }
];
```

Using this configuration, all JavaScript files define a custom global object defined called `MY_CUSTOM_GLOBAL` while those JavaScript files in the `tests` directory have `it` and `describe` defined as global objects in addition to `MY_CUSTOM_GLOBAL`. For any JavaScript file in the tests directory, both configuration objects are applied, so `languageOptions.globals` are merged to create a final result.

### Configuring Linter Options

Options specific to the linting process can be configured using the `linterOptions` object. These effect how linting proceeds and does not affect how the source code of the file is interpreted.

#### Disabling Inline Configuration

Inline configuration is implemented using an `/*eslint*/` comment, such as `/*eslint semi: error*/`. You can disallow inline configuration by setting `noInlineConfig` to `true`. When enabled, all inline configuration is ignored. Here's an example:

```js
// eslint.config.js
export default [
    {
        files: ["**/*.js"],
        linterOptions: {
            noInlineConfig: true
        }
    }
];
```

#### Reporting Unused Disable Directives

> Disable and enable directives such as `/*eslint-disable*/`, `/*eslint-enable*/` and `/*eslint-disable-next-line*/` are used to disable ESLint rules around certain portions of code. As code changes, it's possible for these directives to no longer be needed because the code has changed in such a way that the rule is no longer triggered. You can enable reporting of these unused disable directives by setting the `reportUnusedDisableDirectives` option to `true`, as in this example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Disable and enable directives such as `/*eslint-disable*/`, `/*eslint-enable*/` and `/*eslint-disable-next-line*/` are used to disable ESLint rules around certain portions of code. As code changes, it's possible for these directives to no longer be needed because the code has changed in such a way that the rule is no longer triggered. You can enable reporting of these unused disable directives by setting the `reportUnusedDisableDirectives` option to a severity string, as in this example:
```

```js
// eslint.config.js
export default [
    {
        files: ["**/*.js"],
        linterOptions: {

>             reportUnusedDisableDirectives: true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            reportUnusedDisableDirectives: "error"
```

        }
    }
];
```

> By default, unused disable and enable directives are reported as warnings. You can change this setting using the `--report-unused-disable-directives` command line option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can override this setting using the [`--report-unused-disable-directives`](../command-line-interface#--report-unused-disable-directives) or the [`--report-unused-disable-directives-severity`](../command-line-interface#--report-unused-disable-directives-severity) command line options.

For legacy compatibility, `true` is equivalent to `"warn"` and `false` is equivalent to `"off"`.
```

            sharedData: "Hello"
        }
    }
];
```

### Using Predefined Configurations

ESLint has two predefined configurations for JavaScript:

* `js.configs.recommended` - enables the rules that ESLint recommends everyone use to avoid potential errors
* `js.configs.all` - enables all of the rules shipped with ESLint

To include these predefined configurations, install the `@eslint/js` package and then make any modifications to other properties in subsequent configuration objects:

```js
// eslint.config.js
import js from "@eslint/js";

export default [
    js.configs.recommended,
    {
        rules: {
            "no-unused-vars": "warn"
        }
    }
];
```

Here, the `js.configs.recommended` predefined configuration is applied first and then another configuration object adds the desired configuration for `no-unused-vars`.

You can apply these predefined configs to just a subset of files by specifying a config object with a `files` key, like this:

```js
// eslint.config.js
import js from "@eslint/js";

export default [
    {
        files: ["**/src/safe/*.js"],
        ...js.configs.recommended
    }
];
```

## Using a Shareable Configuration Package

> A sharable configuration is an npm package that exports a configuration object or array. This package should be installed as a dependency in your project and then reference from inside of your `eslint.config.js` file. For example, to use a shareable configuration named `eslint-config-example`, your configuration file would look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A sharable configuration is an npm package that exports a configuration object or array. This package should be installed as a dependency in your project and then referenced from inside of your `eslint.config.js` file. For example, to use a shareable configuration named `eslint-config-example`, your configuration file would look like this:
```

Some shareable configurations will export an array instead, in which case you'll need to use the spread operator to insert those items into the configuration array. For example:

```js
// eslint.config.js
import exampleConfigs from "eslint-config-example";

export default [
    ...exampleConfigs,

    // your modifications
    {
        rules: {
            "no-unused-vars": "warn"
        }
    }
];
```

Please refer to the documentation for the shareable configuration package you're using to determine whether it is exporting an object or an array.

## Configuration File Resolution

When ESLint is run on the command line, it first checks the current working directory for `eslint.config.js`. If the file is not found, it looks to the next parent directory for the file. This search continues until either the file is found or the root directory is reached.

You can prevent this search for `eslint.config.js` by using the `-c` or `--config` option on the command line to specify an alternate configuration file, such as:

```shell
npx eslint --config some-other-file.js **/*.js
```

In this case, ESLint does not search for `eslint.config.js` and instead uses `some-other-file.js`.

> By default, all configuration objects are applied to all files ending with `.js`, `.cjs`, and `.mjs`. Sometimes, however, a more fine-grained application of configuration settings is necessary. For example, what if you'd like to apply a different configuration to different files in the same directory?

Reviewer: This doesn't seem related to Configuration File Resolution.

Author: Hmm yeah, looks like a copy-paste error.
